[[Category:ZKillboard]][[Category:Third Party APIs]]

== API ==
The zKillboard API is for developers and/or enthusiasts who wants to integrate zKB into their website and/or application.

== Rules ==
* Do not hammer the server with API requests.
* Follow the cacheTime indicated in the expires headers, or the cachedUntil value if you are requesting XML
* If you must do several requests in a row, place space them out as much as possible.
* Please send ''Accept-Encoding: gzip'' as header, to help save bandwidth.
* Please send ''User-Agent: <something>'' as a header. Replace ''<something>'' with your name, email, website etc. Example: User-Agent: https://zkillboard.com/ Maintainer: Karbowiak Mail: karbowiak@gmail.com

== Advice ==
* If you are hitting the API limit, perhaps you should condense your requests.  E.G., instead of requesting one character at a time, request multiple characters.
* Be reasonable with your requests.  Most entities don't have new kills every single hour, keep this in mind while programming your utility.
* When developing a tool, try caching the requests locally.  This will help ensure you don't hit API limits during testing and also ensures you are testing against the same set of data.

== Extra Info (Read before you start fetching) ==
* Look at the X-Bin-Request-Count header and X-Bin-Max-Requests header for how many requests you've made, and how many you can make pr. hour.
* You can do any amount of requests pr. second that you want.
* All IDs used with the API are CCP IDs (Except killmail IDs, which can be internally set, but they are denoted with a - infront (negative numbers))
* If you get an error 403, look at the ''Retry-After'' header.
* The API will maximum deliver of 200 killmails.
* If the ''/limit/'' modifier is used, then ''/page/'' is unavailable.
* startTime and endTime is datetime timestamps, in the format ''YmdHi''.. Example ''2012-11-25 19:00'' is written as ''201211251900''
* ''/w-space/'' and ''/solo/'' can be combined with ''/kills/'' and ''/losses/''
* To get combined ''/kills/'' and ''/losses/'', don't pass either ''/kills/'' or ''/losses/''
* Up to 10 IDs can be fetched at the same time, by seperating them with a , (Comma)
* pastSeconds returns only kills that have happened in the past x seconds.
* pastSeconds can maximum go up to 7 days (604800 seconds)
* Default return is JSON, XML is available with ''/xml/'' parameter.
* Remember to finish with a / (Forward slash)
* All modifiers can be combined in any order
* If you do not paass /killID/ then you must pass at least two of the following modifiers. ''/w-space/'', ''/solo/'' or any of the ''/xID/'' ones. (characterID, allianceID, factionID etc.)
* Negative killIDs denote manually posted killmails.
* JSONP is available
* The API has CORS set.
* Page requests over 10 are only allowed for characterID, corporationID and allianceID

== Defaults ==
* Default sort is desc (latest to oldest)
* Default page is 1
* Default format is JSON

== URL Info ==
* ''#'' is a number
* ''YmdHi'' is a timestamp in the following format: ''201201012333'' (2012-01-01 23:33)
* ''Y'' is a year in the following format: ''2012''
* ''m'' is a month in the following format: ''01''
* ''w'' is a week in the following format: ''01''
* ''s'' is seconds

== Page / Time / Limit modifiers ==
* /limit/#/
* /page/#/
* /startTime/YmdHi/
* /endTime/YmdHi/
* /year/Y/
* /month/m/
* /week/w/
* /beforeKillID/#/
* /afterKillID/#/
* /pastSeconds/s/
* /killID/#/

== Fetch Type modifiers ==
* /kills/
* /losses/
* /w-space/
* /solo/

== Order modifiers ==
* /orderDirection/asc/ (Oldest to latest)
* /orderDirection/desc/ (Latest to oldest)

== Fetch modifiers ==
* /characterID/#/
* /corporationID/#/
* /allianceID/#/
* /factionID/#/
* /shipTypeID/#/
* /groupID/#/
* /solarSystemID/#/
* /regionID/#/

== Information modifiers ==
* /no-items/
* /no-attackers/
* /api-only/

== Format modifiers ==
* /xml/

== Examples ==
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/w-space/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/w-space/xml/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/losses/solo/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/losses/solo/xml/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/characterID/268946627/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/characterID/268946627,1633218082/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/characterID/268946627/xml/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/solo/kills/characterID/268946627/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/w-space/corporationID/98076299/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/w-space/corporationID/98076299/page/2/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/shipID/644,638/orderDirection/asc/
* https://zkillboard.com/api/kills/regionID/10000002/

